---
published: true
---


## My PSM I Certification Journey 

Back in the early day as a developer, I thought project management was all about reporting and stuff, and have nothing to do with development performance, let alone hapiness of the team. Well at least that was when I never put much effort to study about project management, be it Agile or traditional.

In traditional project management, developers gets assigned task that is carefully planned by the project manager to meet project deadline and client expectation of the end result. This happened differently in Agile world where developement team have their say about the task they are doing. 

That interest in Agile world have brought me to the most popular Agile framework known to software development, yes, Scrum. Then I started suggesting the company I worked for adopting Scrum, we do it and learned how best to practice it along the way, yeah we experience improvement and enjoying our life better as a developer.

New chapter starts when I moved in to new company, as i have good memories of using Scrum in the past, i suggest the company to adopt it as well. Turns out the director is exited and ask me to present to all the team and see if they liked it. It caught my mind that I have never present and teach Scrum to multiple team and that time I realize that I should meet the standards when talking about something, because obviously I dont want to teach something that is not right and talked about something that I lack of knowledge of. That time I know, I need to validate my knowledge I need a proper traning and certification if I have to.

My search begin, first thing I bumped into was PMI-ACP, because obviously PMI is the provider of the most respectable project management certification, PMP. I went to the site and see if it has Scrum certification, turns out they dont, what they have is PMI-ACP which is Agile certification, Agile is too broad for starters like me, I was searching more specific Scrum certification.

CSM caught my eyes, I began searching for trainings in my country, and came up with nothing. Since CSM requires training to take the exam, I would never get it cheap, I have to go to Singapore to take the training, hotels and other stuff, let alone training fee would cost me my precious money. So i search for alternatives that have the same credibility and industry recognition as CSM. 

Before long I stumbled on [scrum.org](https://www.scrum.org/) they have this [PSM](https://www.scrum.org/Assessments/Professional-Scrum-Master-Assessments) certification that allows the exam to be taken without needing to attend specific training. My thought was "Yeah this is great, I can self study and study it hard then passed the exam". Yes study hard, this exam have very high pass rate of 85% out of 80 question and should be done within an hour. With USD 150 and some determination I'm sure I can pull this off.

The most intersting part is scrum.org was founded by Ken Schwaber and Jeff Sutherland both are not only the most respectable individuals in Scrum, but also the one who drives it forward since the early days of Scrum. Both also the founder of Scrum Alliance which provides CSM certification, which they left to found scrum.org which provides higher standard certification if I may say.

So here is the real thing, if you read this
